---
author: zaki
date: '2009-09-16 04:26:43'
layout: post
type: blog
slug: intelligent-evolution
status: publish
title: Intelligent evolution
wordpress_id: '106'
tags:
  - Fiction
---

The two publications appeared practically at the same time and they started an
argument of epic proportions within the scientific community. Both scientists
claimed nothing less than having solved the mystery of the origin of life -
and not less important - of humankind. Two distinctly different, even
contradicting theories, two proofs. Both of them offering a complete solution:
from the proposed axioms, both of them explained the diversity -  the
development of the individual and the similarities between species not only
those currently existing but even those long extinct.

Some questions did remain unanswered though. The two schools differed greatly
on their views on the mass extinctions during which time whole families of
species have disappeared leaving only a faint trace in the form of fossil
evidence: a skeleton here and there or an object we could connect to ancient -
primitive - species. The community was simply amazed when remains of a smaller
colony from a couple of thousands of years ago was unearthed, but even that
could not compare to what excitement spread through scientific journals when
fossils of a long disappeared ancient species were found in a rare excavation.
Scientists from both camps would throw themselves at the new samples, trying
to fit the new pieces of the puzzle to their theories.

One group has claimed, that species evolved through a very coordinated, but
seemingly random process from other - usually more primitive - species.
Through time, organs that were more useful for survival have been - in a
manner - selected. It's as if there was an algorithm in nature that
experiments with randomly changing the variables, keeping results that it
deems good while terminating those it finds unworthy. This algorithm has been
present for millions if not billions of years (some even went as far as
proposing that the same process can be found before life itself appeared).
There was however a strange gap between humans of the long gone past and
humans of the present - as if only the right fossils that would bridge this
gap were hiding somewhere, waiting to be found one day.

Followers of this theory - called evolutionists - found that pieces of evidence
fit their theory perfectly. They argued, that evolution of the present humans
from ancient human forms is completely possible, as the natural selection
process would experiment practically randomly, therefore given enough time,
ancestor  species could be significantly different from descendant species.
The other group also proposed a complete explanation, however their theory
immediately caused an uproar in the scientific community. They claimed that
present form humans have not appeared through a lengthy process of evolution,
rather, it was created through an intelligent design. Their theory proposed
that present day humans were created by an ancient, intelligent entity, or
even by the - in lack of a better word - consciousness of some ancient
species. Many would instantly distance themselves from members of this second
group and some even went as far as calling the professor that first published
this  theory an idiot. As the arguments started to spiral out of hand, finally
a well-known scientific association has organized a public forum for members
of these groups where they were given the chance to present their findings
and evidence. In the heated debate, followers of the school of evolution would
claim that intelligent design is unscientific, while proponents of intelligent
design would argue on the improbability of random evolution. A noted professor
of the second group was quoted to say:

"I firmly believe that humans were created by an ancient intelligent designer.
The probability of complex organs evolving at random is not in accordance with
nature. The probability of a complex structure evolving randomly is provably
smaller than the theoretically conceivable smallest probability in the
Universe. It is laughable to assume that the organ we know as our brains have
evolved at random from lesser life forms. I don't think it is even
theoretically possible that the our alleged ancestors' primitive
carbohydrate-based organs would spontaneously evolve into our immeasurably
complex silicon chips."

